Emotify: Emotion-based Music Recommendation System
Project Overview
This project leverages facial emotion recognition and integrates it with Spotify’s API to provide personalized music recommendations based on detected emotions. The system uses machine learning to detect facial expressions and suggests music that aligns with the user's emotional state.

The project consists of two parts:

Model Training and Creation (emotify_project.ipynb): This notebook contains all the code for training the emotion detection model.
App Interface (emotify_app.ipynb): This notebook creates an application-like interface, which uses the pre-trained model to interact with users, detect their emotions, and recommend music.
Setup Instructions
Follow the steps below to set up and run the project on your local machine.

1. Clone the Repository
First, clone this GitHub repository to your local machine:

bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/repository-name.git
2. Install Dependencies
Navigate to the project folder and install the required Python dependencies using requirements.txt:

bash
Copy code
cd repository-name
pip install -r requirements.txt
3. Train the Emotion Detection Model
The emotify_project.ipynb file contains the complete code for training the emotion recognition model. Run the notebook to train the model:

Open the notebook in Jupyter:

bash
Copy code
jupyter notebook emotify_project.ipynb
Follow the instructions in the notebook to train the model using a dataset of facial images.

Once the model is trained, save the model locally using the following command inside the notebook:

python
Copy code
model.save('emotion_model.h5')
Make sure that the saved model file (emotion_model.h5) is stored in the appropriate directory, as it will be used by the app interface.

4. Run the Application
Once the model is trained and saved, you can use the emotify_app.ipynb to run the interactive application.

Open the emotify_app.ipynb file:

bash
Copy code
jupyter notebook emotify_app.ipynb
This notebook loads the pre-trained model (emotion_model.h5) and provides an application-like interface.

5. Interact with the App
The app will use your webcam or a file input to capture facial images, detect the user's emotional state, and recommend music tracks based on the emotion detected. To use the app:

Ensure that the model is loaded correctly.
Run the application and follow the on-screen instructions to interact with it.
The app will connect to Spotify’s API to fetch music recommendations for the detected emotion.
6. Spotify API Setup
To integrate with Spotify’s API:

Obtain Spotify API credentials (client ID and client secret) by registering your app on Spotify Developer.
Add your Spotify credentials in the appropriate sections of the notebook before running the application.
7. Customization
You can modify various aspects of the project, such as:

Emotion Detection: Fine-tune the training process in emotify_project.ipynb by modifying hyperparameters.
Music Recommendations: Adjust the emotion-to-music mapping logic in emotify_app.ipynb.
8. Future Enhancements
Extend the emotion recognition to detect more complex emotions.
Add further personalization to the music recommendations based on the user's listening history or preferences.
Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you want to contribute, please open an issue or submit a pull request.